# Hash Codes

Hash codes are used to map data or objects to a hash table. A hash code is a number generated from a string of text. The hash code is generated by a hash function. A hash function is a function that takes an input and returns a fixed-size string of bytes. The hash function is designed to be a one-way function, meaning that it is difficult to reverse the process and determine the original input from the hash code.

Hash codes are used in many different applications. They are used in computer security to store passwords. They are used in data storage to store data in a hash table. They are used in computer graphics to generate unique identifiers for objects. They are used in computer networking to generate unique identifiers for packets of data.

# Hash Table

A hash table is a data structure that is used to store data in a way that allows for fast retrieval. A hash table is made up of an array of slots. Each slot in the array can hold a single piece of data. The hash code of the data is used to determine which slot in the array the data should be stored in. When data is added to the hash table, the hash code of the data is calculated and used to determine which slot in the array the data should be stored in. When data is retrieved from the hash table, the hash code of the data is calculated and used to determine which slot in the array the data is stored in.

# Hash Function
 
A hash function is a function that takes an input and returns a fixed-size string of bytes. The hash function is designed to be a one-way function, meaning that it is difficult to reverse the process and determine the original input from the hash code. A good hash function will produce a unique hash code for each unique input. A good hash function will also produce a hash code that is evenly distributed across the range of possible hash codes.

Common hash functions include the MD5 hash function, the SHA-1 hash function, and the SHA-256 hash function. These hash functions are designed to produce unique hash codes for each unique input. They are also designed to produce hash codes that are evenly distributed across the range of possible hash codes.


